Progris riport 1 martch 3.
Dr Strauss says I shoud rite down what I think and remembir and evrey thing
that happins to me from now on. I dont no why but he says its importint so
they will see if they can use me. I hope they use me becaus Miss Kinnian says
mabye they can make me smart. I want to be smart. My name is Charlie Gordon
I werk in Dormers bakery where Mr Donner gives me 11 dollers a week and bred
or cake if I want. I am 32 yeres old and next munth is my brithday. I tolld
dr Strauss and perfesser Nemur I cant rite good but he says it dont matter he
says I shud rite just like I talk and like I rite compushishens in Miss Kinnians
class at the beekmin collidge center for retarted adults where I go to
lern 3 times a week on my time off. Dr Strauss says to rite a lot evrything
I think and evrything that happins to me but I cant think anymor because I
have nothing to rite so I will close for today... yrs truly Charlie
Gordon.
Progris riport 2 - martch 4.
I had a test today. I think I faled it and I think mabye now they wont use
me. What happind is I went to Prof Nemurs office on my lunch time like they
said and his secertery took me to a place that said psych dept on the door
with a long hall and alot of littel rooms with onley a desk and chares. And
a nice man was in one of the rooms and he had some wite cards with ink spilld
all over them. He sed sit down Charlie and make yourself cunfortible and
rilax. He had a wite coat like a docter but I dont think. he was no docter
because he dint tell me to opin my mouth and say ah. All he had was those
wite cards. His name is Burt. I fergot his last name because I dont remember
I dint know what he was gonna do and I was holding on tite to the chair like
sometimes when I go to a dentist onley Burt aint no dentist neither but he
kept telling me to rilax and that gets me skared because it always means its
gonna hert.
So Burt sed Charlie what do you see on this card. I saw the spilld ink and
I was very skared even tho I got my rabits foot in my pockit because when I
was a kid I always faled tests in school and I spilld ink to.
I tolld Burt I saw ink spilld on a wite card. Burt said yes and he smild and
that maid me feel good. He kept terning all the cards and I tolld him
somebody spilld ink on all of them red and black. I thot that was a easy test
but when I got up to go Burt stoppd me and said now sit down Charlie we are
not thru yet. Theres more we got to do with these cards. I dint understand
about it but I remembir Dr Strauss said do anything the testor telld me even
if it dont make no sense because thats testing.
I dont remembir so good what Burt said but I remembir he wantid me to say
what was in the ink. I dint see nothing in the ink but Burt sed there was
picturs there. I coudnt see no picturs. I reely tryed to see. I holded the
card up close and then far away. Then I said if I had my eye glassis I coud
probaly see better I usully only ware my eyeglassis in the movies or to watch
TV but I sed maybe they will help me see the picturs in the ink. I put them
on and I said now let me see the card agars I bet I find it now.
I tryed hard but I still coudnt find the picturs I only saw the ink. I tolld
Burt mabey I need new glassis. He rote somthing down on a paper and I got
skared of faling the test. So I tolld him it was a very nice pictur of ink
with pritty points all around the eges but he shaked his head so that wasnt
it neither. I asked him if other pepul saw things in the ink and he sed yes
they imagen picturs in the inkblot. He tolld me the ink on the card was calld
inkblot.
Burt is very nice and he tasks slow like Miss Kinman dose in her class where
I go to lern reeding for slow adults. He explaned me it was a raw shok test. He
sed pepul see things in the ink. I said show me where. He dint show me he
just kept saying think imagen theres something on the card. I tolld him I imaggen
a inkblot.
He shaked his head so that wasnt rite eather. He said what does it remind you
of pretend its something. I closd my eyes for a long time to pretend and then I
said I pretend a bottel of ink spilld all over a wite card. And thats when
the point on his pencel broke and then we got up and went out.
I dont think I passd the raw shok test.
3d progris riport.
Martch 5 - Dr Strauss and prof Nemur say it dont matter about the ink on the
cards. I tolld them I dint spill the ink on them and I coudnt see anything in
the ink. They said maybe they will still use me. I tolld Dr Strauss that Miss
Kinnian never gave me tests like that only riting and reeding. He said Miss
Kinnian tolld him I was her bestist pupil in the Beekman School for retarted
adults and I tryed the hardist becaus I reely wantd to lern I wantid it more
even then pepul who are smarter even then me.
Dr Strauss askd me how come you went to the Beekman School all by yourself
Charlie. How did you find out about it. I said I dont remembir.
Prof Nemur said but why did you want to lern to reed and spell in the frist
place. I tolld him because all my life I wantid to be smart and not dumb and
my mom always tolld me to try and lern just like Miss Kinnian tells me but
its very hard to be smart and even when I lern something in Miss Kinnians
class at the school I ferget alot.
Dr Strauss rote some things on a peice of paper and prof Nemur talkd to me
very sereus. He said you know Charlie we are not shure how this experamint
will werk on pepul because we onley tried it up to now on animils. I said
s what Miss Kinnian tolld me but I dont even care if it herts or anything
because Im strong and I will werk hard.
I want to get smart if they will let me. They said they got to get permissen
from my familie but my uncle Herman who use to take care of me is ded and I
dont remember about my familie. I dint see my mother or father or my littel
sister Norma for a long long long time. Mabye their ded to. Dr Strauss askd me
where they use to live. I think in brooklin. He sed they will see if mabye they
can find them.
I hope I dont have to rite to much of these progris ri-ports because it takes
along time and I get to sleep very late and Im tired at werk in the morning. Gimpy
hollered at me because I droppd a tray full of rolles I was carrying
over to the oven. They got derty and he had to wipe them off before he put
them in to bake. Gimpy hollers at me all the time when I do something rong,
but he reely likes me because hes my frend. Boy if I get smart wont he be
serprised.
Progris riport 4.
Mar 6 - I had more crazy tests today in case they use me. That same place but
a differnt littel testing room. The nice lady who give it to me tolld me the
name and I askd her how do you spell it so I can put it down rite in my
progis riport. THEMATIC APPERCEPTON TEST. I dont know the frist 2 werds but
I know what test means. You got to pass it or you get bad marks.
This test lookd easy because I coud see the picturs. Only this time she dint
want me to tell what I saw in the picturs. That mixd me up. I tolld her yesterday
Burt said I shoud tell what I saw in the ink. She said that dont
make a difrence because this test is something else. Now you got to make up
storys about the pepul in the picturs.
I said how can I tell storys about pepul I dont know. She said make beleeve
but I tolld her thats lies. I never tell lies any more because when I was a
kid I made lies and I always got hit. I got a pictur in my walet of me and
Norma with Uncle Herman who got me the job to be janiter at Dormers bakery
before he dyed.
I said I coud make storys about them because I livd with Uncle Herman along
time but the lady dint want to hear about them. She said this test and the
other one the raw shok was for getting persinality. I laffd. I tolld her how
can you get that thing from cards that sombody spilld ink on and fotos of
pepul you dont even no. She lookd angrey and took the picturs away. I dont
care.
I gess I faled that test too.
Then I drawed some picturs for her but I dont drawer so good. Later the
other testor Burt in the wite coat came back his name is Burt Selden and he
took me to a diferent place on the same 4th floor in the Beekman University
that said PSYCHOLOGY LABORATORY on the door. Burt said PSYCHOLOGY means
minds and LABORATORY meens a place where they make spearamints. I thot he ment
like
where they made the chooing gum but now I think its puzzels and games because
thats what we did.
I coudnt werk the puzzels so good because it was all broke and the pieces
coudnt fit in the holes. One game was a paper with lines in all derections
and lots of boxs. On one side it said START and on the other end it said
FINISH. He tolld me that game was amazed and I shoud take the pencil and go
from where it said START to where it said FINISH withowt crossing over any of
the lines.
I dint understand the amazed and we used up a lot of papers. Then Burt said
look I'll show you something lets go to the sperimental lab mabye youll get
the idea. We went up to the 5th floor to another room with lots of cages and
animils they had monkys and some mouses. It had a funny smel like old
garbidge. And there was other pepul in wite coats playing with the animils so
I thot it was like a pet store but their wasnt no customers. Burt took a wite
mouse out of the cage and showd him to me. Burt said thats Algernon and he
can do this amazed very good. I tolld him you show me how he does that.
Well do you know he put Algernon in a box like a big tabel with alot of
twists and terns like all kinds of walls and a START and a FINISH like the
paper had. Only their was a skreen over the big tabel. And Burt took out his
clock and lifted up a slidding door and said lets go Algernon and the mouse
sniffd 2 or 3 times and startid to run. First he ran down one long row and
then when he saw he coudnt go no more he came back where he startid from and
he just stood there a minit wiggeling his wiskers. Then he went off in the
other derection and startid to run again.
It was just like he was doing the same thing Burt
wanted me to do with the lines on the paper. I was laffing because I thot it
was going to be a hard thing for a mouse to do. But then Algernon kept going
all the way threw that thing all the rite ways till he came out where it said
FINISH and he made a squeek. Burt says that means he was happy because he did
the thing rite.
Boy I said thats a smart mouse. Burt said woud you like to race against
Algernon. I said sure and he said he had a differnt kind of amaze made of
wood with rows skratched in it and an electrik stick like a pencil. And he
coud fix up Algernons amaze to be the same like that one so we could both be
doing the same kind.
He moved all the bords around on Algemons tabel because they come apart and
he could put them together in differnt ways. And then he put the skreen back
on top so Algernon woudnt jump over any rows to get to the FINISH. Then he
gave me the electrik stick and showd me how to put it in between the rows and
Im not suppose to lift it off the bord just follow the little skratches until
the pencil cant move any more or I get a little shock.
He took out his clock and he was trying to hide it. So I tryed not to look
at him and that made me very nervus.
When he said go I tryed to go but I dint know where to go. I didnt know the
way to take. Then I herd Algernon squeeking from the box on the tabel and his
feet skratching like he was runing alredy. I startid to go but I went in the
rong way and got stuck and a littel shock in my fingers so I went back to the
START but evertime I went a differnt way I got stuck and a shock. It didnt
hert or anything just made me jump a littel and Burt said it was to show me
I did the wrong thing. I was haffway on the bord when I herd Algernon squeek
like he was happy again and that means he won the race.
And the other ten times we did it over Algernon won evry time because I
coudnt find the right rows to get to where it says FINISH. I dint feel bad
because I watched Algernon and I lernd how to finish the amaze even if it
takes me along time.
I dint know mice were so smart.